modules/monitoring-enabling-the-platform-alertmanager-instance-for-user-defined-alert-routing.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/monitoring/enabling-alert-routing-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enabling-the-platform-alertmanager-instance-for-user-defined-alert-routing_{context}"]
= Enabling the platform Alertmanager instance for user-defined alert routing

[role="_abstract"]
Cluster administrators can allow users to create user-defined alert routing configurations that use the main platform instance of Alertmanager.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` cluster role.
* A cluster administrator has enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Add `enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true` in the `alertmanagerMain` section under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    # ...
    alertmanagerMain:
      enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true
    # ...
----
+
Setting the `enableUserAlertmanagerConfig` value to `true` allows users to create user-defined alert routing configurations that use the main platform instance of Alertmanager.

. Save the file to apply the changes. The new configuration is applied automatically.

Commit message:

OBSDOCS-2418: OSD and ROSA integration to standalone monitoring docset

modules/monitoring-enabling-the-platform-alertmanager-instance-for-user-defined-alert-routing.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/monitoring/enabling-alert-routing-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enabling-the-platform-alertmanager-instance-for-user-defined-alert-routing_{context}"]
= Enabling the platform Alertmanager instance for user-defined alert routing

[role="_abstract"]
Cluster administrators can allow users to create user-defined alert routing configurations that use the main platform instance of Alertmanager.


[NOTE]
====
This section about enabling the platform Alertmanager instance for user-defined alert routing applies to the following distributions:

* {ocp}
* {product-rosa-hcp}
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` cluster role.
* A cluster administrator has enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Add `enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true` in the `alertmanagerMain` section under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    # ...
    alertmanagerMain:
      enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true
    # ...
----
+
Setting the `enableUserAlertmanagerConfig` value to `true` allows users to create user-defined alert routing configurations that use the main platform instance of Alertmanager.

. Save the file to apply the changes. The new configuration is applied automatically.
