modules/monitoring-disabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="disabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= Disabling monitoring for user-defined projects

[role="_abstract"]
After enabling monitoring for user-defined projects, you can disable it again by setting `enableUserWorkload: false` in the cluster monitoring `ConfigMap` object.

[NOTE]
====
Alternatively, you can remove `enableUserWorkload: true` to disable monitoring for user-defined projects.
====

.Procedure

. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Set `enableUserWorkload:` to `false` under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    enableUserWorkload: false
----

. Save the file to apply the changes. Monitoring for user-defined projects is then disabled automatically.

.Verification

. Verify that the `prometheus-operator`, `prometheus-user-workload` and `thanos-ruler-user-workload` pods are terminated in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project. This might take a short while:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring get pod
----
+
*Example output:*
+
[source,terminal]
----
No resources found in openshift-user-workload-monitoring project.
----

[NOTE]
====
The `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project is not automatically deleted when monitoring for user-defined projects is disabled. This is to preserve any custom configurations that you may have created in the `ConfigMap` object.
====

Commit message:

OBSDOCS-2418: OSD and ROSA integration to standalone monitoring docset

modules/monitoring-disabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="disabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= Disabling monitoring for user-defined projects

[role="_abstract"]
In {ocp} and {product-rosa-hcp}, after enabling monitoring for user-defined projects, you can disable it again by setting `enableUserWorkload: false` in the cluster monitoring `ConfigMap` object.

[NOTE]
====
Alternatively, you can remove `enableUserWorkload: true` to disable monitoring for user-defined projects.
====

In {product-rosa-hcp} and {product-dedicated}, by default, monitoring for user-defined projects is enabled. If you do not want to use the built-in monitoring stack to monitor user-defined projects, you can disable it.

.Prerequisites

* For {product-rosa} and {product-dedicated}, you logged in to link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift[OpenShift Cluster Manager].

.Procedure

* In {ocp} and {product-rosa-hcp}, perform the following steps:
.. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

.. Set `enableUserWorkload:` to `false` under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    enableUserWorkload: false
----

.. Save the file to apply the changes. Monitoring for user-defined projects is then disabled automatically.

.. Verify that the `prometheus-operator`, `prometheus-user-workload` and `thanos-ruler-user-workload` pods are terminated in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project. This might take a short while:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring get pod
----
+
*Example output:*
+
[source,terminal]
----
No resources found in openshift-user-workload-monitoring project.
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project is not automatically deleted when monitoring for user-defined projects is disabled. This is to preserve any custom configurations that you may have created in the `ConfigMap` object.
====

* In {product-rosa} and {product-dedicated}, perform the following steps:

.. From the {cluster-manager} {hybrid-console-second}, select a cluster.

.. Click the *Settings* tab.

.. Click the *Enable user workload monitoring* check box to unselect the option, and then click *Save*.
+
User workload monitoring is disabled. The Prometheus, Prometheus Operator, and Thanos Ruler components are stopped in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.
