modules/monitoring-granting-users-permission-to-monitor-user-defined-projects.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="granting-users-permission-to-monitor-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= Granting users permissions for monitoring for user-defined projects

[role="_abstract"]
As a cluster administrator, you can monitor all core {ocp} and user-defined projects.

You can also grant developers and other users different permissions:

* Monitoring user-defined projects
* Configuring the components that monitor user-defined projects
* Configuring alert routing for user-defined projects
* Managing alerts and silences for user-defined projects

You can grant the permissions by assigning one of the following monitoring roles or cluster roles:

.Monitoring roles
|===
|Role name |Description |Project

|`user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` 
|Users with this role can edit the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object to configure Prometheus, Prometheus Operator, Alertmanager, and Thanos Ruler for user-defined workload monitoring. 
|`openshift-user-workload-monitoring`

|`monitoring-alertmanager-api-reader` 
|Users with this role have read access to the user-defined Alertmanager API for all projects, if the user-defined Alertmanager is enabled.
|`openshift-user-workload-monitoring`

|`monitoring-alertmanager-api-writer` 
|Users with this role have read and write access to the user-defined Alertmanager API for all projects, if the user-defined Alertmanager is enabled.
|`openshift-user-workload-monitoring`
|===

.Monitoring cluster roles
|===
|Cluster role name |Description |Project

|`monitoring-rules-view` 
|Users with this cluster role have read access to `PrometheusRule` custom resources (CRs) for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`monitoring-rules-edit` 
|Users with this cluster role can create, modify, and delete `PrometheusRule` CRs for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`monitoring-edit` 
|Users with this cluster role have the same privileges as users with the `monitoring-rules-edit` cluster role. Additionally, users can create, read, modify, and delete `ServiceMonitor` and `PodMonitor` resources to scrape metrics from services and pods.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`alert-routing-edit` 
|Users with this cluster role can create, update, and delete `AlertmanagerConfig` CRs for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`pod-metrics-reader` 
|Users with this cluster role can access Thanos API endpoints for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.
|===

Commit message:

OBSDOCS-2418: OSD and ROSA integration to standalone monitoring docset

modules/monitoring-granting-users-permission-to-monitor-user-defined-projects.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="granting-users-permission-to-monitor-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= Granting users permissions for monitoring for user-defined projects

[role="_abstract"]
As a cluster administrator, you can monitor all core {ocp} and user-defined projects.

[NOTE]
====
The following sections about granting users permissions for monitoring for user-defined projects apply to the following distributions:

* {ocp}
* {product-rosa-hcp}
====

You can also grant developers and other users different permissions:

* Monitoring user-defined projects
* Configuring the components that monitor user-defined projects
* Configuring alert routing for user-defined projects
* Managing alerts and silences for user-defined projects

You can grant the permissions by assigning one of the following monitoring roles or cluster roles:

.Monitoring roles
|===
|Role name |Description |Project

|`user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` 
|Users with this role can edit the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object to configure Prometheus, Prometheus Operator, Alertmanager, and Thanos Ruler for user-defined workload monitoring. 
|`openshift-user-workload-monitoring`

|`monitoring-alertmanager-api-reader` 
|Users with this role have read access to the user-defined Alertmanager API for all projects, if the user-defined Alertmanager is enabled.
|`openshift-user-workload-monitoring`

|`monitoring-alertmanager-api-writer` 
|Users with this role have read and write access to the user-defined Alertmanager API for all projects, if the user-defined Alertmanager is enabled.
|`openshift-user-workload-monitoring`
|===

.Monitoring cluster roles
|===
|Cluster role name |Description |Project

|`monitoring-rules-view` 
|Users with this cluster role have read access to `PrometheusRule` custom resources (CRs) for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`monitoring-rules-edit` 
|Users with this cluster role can create, modify, and delete `PrometheusRule` CRs for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`monitoring-edit` 
|Users with this cluster role have the same privileges as users with the `monitoring-rules-edit` cluster role. Additionally, users can create, read, modify, and delete `ServiceMonitor` and `PodMonitor` resources to scrape metrics from services and pods.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`alert-routing-edit` 
|Users with this cluster role can create, update, and delete `AlertmanagerConfig` CRs for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.

|`pod-metrics-reader` 
|Users with this cluster role can access Thanos API endpoints for user-defined projects.
|Can be bound with `RoleBinding` to any user project.
|===
